LICENSE for the Tracker Component Library, Version 6.0

All of the data included is in the public domain and was obtained from U.S
Government servers, with the exceptions of the Hipparcos 2 Catalog and the
Earth2014 model. The Earth2014 model was produced by researchers at Curtin
University in Australia. The file "./Terrain/data/Earth2014 License.txt"
shows the statement provided declaring it to be in the public domain. The
Hipparcos 2 catalog is maintained by the European Space Agency at
http://www.cosmos.esa.int/web/hipparcos/home
The catalog forms the basis of a number of international standards and is
in the public domain, as verified by the Hipparcos helpdesk, whose contact
information is available at the aforementioned web site.

The source code, except for the code in the 3rd_Party_Libraries folder and
the MMOSPA2Tar2D function is
in the public domain and not licensed or under copyright and was produced
at the U.S. Naval Research Laboratory. The information and software may be
used freely by the public. As required by 17 U.S.C. 403, third parties
producing copyrighted works consisting predominantly of the material
produced by U.S. Government agencies must provide notice with such work(s)
identifying the U.S. Government material incorporated and stating that such
material is not subject to copyright protection.

Derived works shall not identify themselves in a manner that implies an
endorsement by or an affiliation with the Naval Research Laboratory.

RECIPIENT BEARS ALL RISK RELATING TO QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
SOFTWARE AND ANY RELATED MATERIALS, AND AGREES TO INDEMNIFY THE NAVAL
RESEARCH LABORATORY FOR ALL THIRD-PARTY CLAIMS RESULTING FROM THE ACTIONS
OF RECIPIENT IN THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE.

The MMOSPA2Tar2D function is under the MIT license, which is given as
follows:
%The MIT License:
Copyright 2023, Marcus Baum (University of Göttingen)
 
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the “Software”),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
 
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
